---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - Oracle
  - OracleTransparentNetworkSubstrate
  - TNS
---
## Default Configuration

The default configuration of the Oracle TNS server varies depending on the version and edition of Oracle software installed. However, some common settings are usually configured by default in Oracle TNS.

By default, the listener listens for incoming connections on the `TCP/1521` port. However, this default port can be changed during installation or later in the configuration file. The TNS listener is configured to support various network protocols, including `TCP/IP`, `UDP`, `IPX/SPX`, and `AppleTalk`. The listener can also support multiple network interfaces and listen on specific IP addresses or all available network interfaces. 

By default, Oracle TNS can be remotely managed in `Oracle 8i`/`9i` but not in Oracle `10g`/`11g`.

The default configuration of the TNS listener also includes a few basic security features. For example, the listener will only accept connections from authorized hosts and perform basic authentication using a combination of hostnames, IP addresses, and usernames and passwords. 

Additionally, the listener will use Oracle Net Services to encrypt the communication between the client and the server. The configuration files for Oracle TNS are called `tnsnames.ora` and `listener.ora` and are typically located in the `$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin` directory. The plain text file contains configuration information for Oracle database instances and other network services that use the TNS protocol.

Oracle TNS is often used with other Oracle services like Oracle DBSNMP, Oracle Databases, Oracle Application Server, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle Fusion Middleware, web servers, and many more. There have been made many changes for the default installation of Oracle services. 

> [!NOTE]
> For example, Oracle 9 has a default password, `CHANGE_ON_INSTALL`, whereas Oracle 10 has no default password set. The Oracle DBSNMP service also uses a default password, `dbsnmp` that we should remember when we come across this one. 

Another example would be that many organizations still use the `finger` service together with Oracle, which can put Oracle's service at risk and make it vulnerable when we have the required knowledge of a home directory.

Each database or service has a unique entry in the [tnsnames.ora](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E11882_01/network.112/e10835/tnsnames.htm#NETRF007) file, containing the necessary information for clients to connect to the service. The entry consists of a name for the service, the network location of the service, and the database or service name that clients should use when connecting to the service. 

#### Tnsnames.ora

```txt
ORCL =
  (DESCRIPTION =
    (ADDRESS_LIST =
      (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCP)(HOST = 10.129.11.102)(PORT = 1521))
    )
    (CONNECT_DATA =
      (SERVER = DEDICATED)
      (SERVICE_NAME = orcl)
    )
  )
```

Clients should use the service name `orcl` when connecting to the service. However, the tnsnames.ora file can contain many such entries for different databases and services. The entries can also include additional information, such as authentication details, connection pooling settings, and load balancing configurations.

On the other hand, the `listener.ora` file is a server-side configuration file that defines the listener process's properties and parameters, which is responsible for receiving incoming client requests and forwarding them to the appropriate Oracle database instance.
#### Listener.ora

```txt
SID_LIST_LISTENER =
  (SID_LIST =
    (SID_DESC =
      (SID_NAME = PDB1)
      (ORACLE_HOME = C:\oracle\product\19.0.0\dbhome_1)
      (GLOBAL_DBNAME = PDB1)
      (SID_DIRECTORY_LIST =
        (SID_DIRECTORY =
          (DIRECTORY_TYPE = TNS_ADMIN)
          (DIRECTORY = C:\oracle\product\19.0.0\dbhome_1\network\admin)
        )
      )
    )
  )

LISTENER =
  (DESCRIPTION_LIST =
    (DESCRIPTION =
      (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCP)(HOST = orcl.inlanefreight.htb)(PORT = 1521))
      (ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = IPC)(KEY = EXTPROC1521))
    )
  )

ADR_BASE_LISTENER = C:\oracle
```

In short, the client-side Oracle Net Services software uses the `tnsnames.ora` file to resolve service names to network addresses, while the listener process uses the `listener.ora` file to determine the services it should listen to and the behaviour of the listener.

## Security 



















