
Information gathering is an essential part of any assessment. Because information, the knowledge gained from it, the conclusions we draw, and the steps we take are based on the information available. This information must be obtained from somewhere, so it is critical to know how to retrieve it and best leverage it based on our assessment goals.

The next stop on our journey is `Vulnerability Assessment`, where we use the information found to identify potential weaknesses. We can use vulnerability scanners that will scan the target systems for known vulnerabilities and manual analysis where we try to look behind the scenes to discover where the potential vulnerabilities might lie.

The information we gather in advance will influence the results of the `Exploitation` stage. From this, we can see if we have collected enough or dived deep enough. Time, patience, and personal commitment all play a significant role in information gathering. This is when many penetration testers tend to jump straight into exploiting a potential vulnerability. This often fails and can lead, among other things, to a significant loss of time. Before attempting to exploit anything, we should have completed thorough information gathering, keeping detailed notes along the way, focusing on things to hone in on once we get to the exploitation stage. Most assessments are time-based, so we don't want to waste time bouncing around, which could lead to us missing something critical. Organization and patience are vital while being as thorough as possible.