
The `Proof-Of-Concept` (`POC`) is merely proof that a vulnerability found exists. As soon as the administrators receive our report, they will try to confirm the vulnerabilities found by reproducing them. After all, no administrator will change business-critical processes without confirming the existence of a given vulnerability. A large network may have many interoperating systems and dependencies that must be checked after making a change, which can take a considerable amount of time and money. Just because a pentester found a given flaw, it doesn't mean that the organization can easily remediate it by just changing one system, as this could negatively affect the business. Administrators must carefully test fixes to ensure no other system is negatively impacted when a change is introduced. PoCs are sent along with the documentation as part of a high-quality penetration test, allowing administrators to use them to confirm the issues themselves.

From this stage, there is only one path we can take:

| **Path**          | **Description**                                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Post-Engagement` | At this point, we can only go to the post-engagement stage, where we optimize and improve the documentation and send it to the customer after an intensive review. |
A `PoC` can have many different representations. For example, `documentation` of the vulnerabilities found can also constitute a PoC. The more practical version of a PoC is a `script` or `code` that automatically exploits the vulnerabilities found. This demonstrates the flawless exploitation of the vulnerabilities. This variant is straightforward for an administrator or developer because they can see what steps our script takes to exploit the vulnerability.

For example, if a user uses the password `Password123`, the underlying vulnerability is not the password but the `password policy`. If a Domain Admin is found to be using that password and it is changed, that one account will now have a stronger password, but the problem of weak passwords will likely still be endemic within the organization.

In addition, we have to reconcile all our notes with the documentation we have written in the meantime to make sure we have not skipped any steps and can provide a comprehensive, well-formatted and neat report to our clients.

It is important to note that a pentest is not monitoring the IT infrastructure or systems but a momentary snapshot of the security status. A statement to this regard should be reflected in our penetration test report deliverable. The report they receive from us should help them see the entire picture, focus on the broader issues, and provide clear remediation advice. Including an attack chain walkthrough in the event of domain compromise during an internal is a great way to show how multiple flaws can be combined and how fixing one flaw will break the chain, but the other flaws will still exist. If these are not also fixed, there may be another path to get to the point where the attack chain was remediated and continue onwards. We should also drive this point home during our report review meeting.

