The `Post-Engagement` stage also includes cleaning up the systems we exploit so that none of these systems can be exploited using our tools. For example, leaving a bind shell on a web server that does not require authentication and is easy to find will do the opposite of what we are trying to do. In this way, we endanger the network through our carelessness. Therefore, it is essential to remove all content that we have transferred to the systems during our penetration test so that the corporate network is left in the same state as before our penetration test. We also should note down any system changes, successful exploitation attempts, captured credentials, and uploaded files in the appendices of our report so our clients can cross-check this against any alerts they receive to prove that they were a result of our testing actions and not an actual attacker in the network.

A `PoC` can have many different representations. For example, `documentation` of the vulnerabilities found can also constitute a PoC. The more practical version of a PoC is a `script` or `code` that automatically exploits the vulnerabilities found. This demonstrates the flawless exploitation of the vulnerabilities. This variant is straightforward for an administrator or developer because they can see what steps our script takes to exploit the vulnerability.

For example, if a user uses the password `Password123`, the underlying vulnerability is not the password but the `password policy`. If a Domain Admin is found to be using that password and it is changed, that one account will now have a stronger password, but the problem of weak passwords will likely still be endemic within the organization.

In addition, we have to reconcile all our notes with the documentation we have written in the meantime to make sure we have not skipped any steps and can provide a comprehensive, well-formatted and neat report to our clients.

It is important to note that a pentest is not monitoring the IT infrastructure or systems but a momentary snapshot of the security status. A statement to this regard should be reflected in our penetration test report deliverable. The report they receive from us should help them see the entire picture, focus on the broader issues, and provide clear remediation advice. Including an attack chain walkthrough in the event of domain compromise during an internal is a great way to show how multiple flaws can be combined and how fixing one flaw will break the chain, but the other flaws will still exist. If these are not also fixed, there may be another path to get to the point where the attack chain was remediated and continue onwards. We should also drive this point home during our report review meeting.

