---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - FTP
---
FTP stands for File Transfer Protocol ([RFC 959 - File Transfer Protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc959)), which is a standard network protocol used to transfer files from one host to another over a TCP-based network, such as the internet. FTP is commonly used for uploading and downloading files to and from a server, making it a popular tool for managing website files, software updates, and sharing large files with others.

In an FTP connection, two channels are opened. First, the client and server establish a control channel through `TCP port 21`. The client sends commands to the server, and the server returns status codes. Then both communication participants can establish the data channel via `TCP port 20`. This channel is used exclusively for data transmission, and the protocol watches for errors during this process. If a connection is broken off during transmission, the transport can be resumed after re-established contact.

FTP is capable of running in two different modes, `active` or `passive`. Active is the default operational method utilized by FTP, meaning that the server listens for a control command `PORT` from the client, stating what port to use for data transfer. However, if a firewall protects the client, the server cannot reply because all external connections are blocked. For this purpose, the `passive mode` has been developed. Here, the server announces a port through which the client can establish the data channel. Since the client initiates the connection in this method, the firewall does not block the transfer. In this instance, the client would send the `PASV` command and wait for a response from the server informing the client what IP and port to utilize for the data transfer channel connection.

#### FTP Commands

|**Command**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`USER`|specifies the user to log in as.|
|`PASS`|sends the password for the user attempting to log in.|
|`PORT`|when in active mode, this will change the data port used.|
|`PASV`|switches the connection to the server from active mode to passive.|
|`LIST`|displays a list of the files in the current directory.|
|`CWD`|will change the current working directory to one specified.|
|`PWD`|prints out the directory you are currently working in.|
|`SIZE`|will return the size of a file specified.|
|`RETR`|retrieves the file from the FTP server.|
|`QUIT`|ends the session.|
[Secure File Sharing & FTP Hosting for Enterprise | SmartFile](https://www.smartfile.com/blog/the-ultimate-ftp-commands-list/)

This is not an exhaustive list of the possible FTP control commands that could be seen. These can vary based on the FTP application or shell in use. For more information on FTP, see [RFC 959 - File Transfer Protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc959).
# Guide

1. [[2. Brute Forcing Guide|Brute force]] connections as a last resort  
# Note

1. Different file systems for different users

