---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - DNS
  - DomainNameSystem
aliases:
  - DNS
  - Domain Name System
---
[DNS](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1034) is a common naming standard used across the Internet and in most modern network types. DNS allows us to reference hosts by a unique name instead of their IP address. This is how we can reference a website by "www.google.com" instead of "8.8.8.8". Internally this is how we request resources and access from a network.

However, the DNS does not only link computer names and IP addresses. It also stores and outputs additional information about the services associated with a domain. A DNS query can therefore also be used, for example, to determine which computer serves as the e-mail server for the domain in question or what the domain's name servers are called.
# Guide 

1. See [[Validate DNS]]
2. The DNS environment can be linked through proxies see [[2. Enumeration/TCP/3128. Squid Proxy/1. Guide|Squid Proxy]]
3. DNS uses both TCP and UDP to communicate, beware of this when filtering traffic in [[1. Analysis Overview|Traffic Analysis]]
4. [The Most Popular Types of DNS Attacks](https://securitytrails.com/blog/most-popular-types-dns-attacks)

## Enumeration

1. Query the found DNS server for other known Name Servers (NS):

We do this using the NS record and the specification of the DNS server we want to query using the `@` character:
```shell-session
dig ns inlanefreight.htb @10.129.14.128
```

2. Version query

```shell-session
dig CH TXT version.bind 10.129.120.85
```

3. Get all entries it is willing to show

```shell-session
dig any inlanefreight.htb @10.129.14.128
```

4. Attempt a [[2. Enumeration/TCP/53. Domain Name System (DNS)/2. Information#Zone Transfers|Zone Transfer]] to view all records from the server

```shell-session
dig axfr inlanefreight.htb @10.129.14.128
```

5. Attempt a internal [[2. Enumeration/TCP/53. Domain Name System (DNS)/2. Information#Zone Transfers|Zone Transfer]]

If the administrator used a subnet for the `allow-transfer` option for testing purposes or as a workaround solution or set it to `any`, everyone would query the entire zone file at the DNS server. In addition, other zones can be queried, which may even show internal IP addresses and hostnames.

Where `internal` is a sub-domain. This can be brute forced if not known.

```shell-session
dig axfr internal.inlanefreight.htb @10.129.14.128
```

Then, see [[DnsEnum]]

```shell-session
dnsenum --dnsserver 10.129.14.128 --enum -p 0 -s 0 -o subdomains.txt -f /opt/useful/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-110000.txt inlanefreight.htb
```

Brute forcing can be done on sub-domains of sub-domains. e.g. `win2k.dev.inlanefreight.htb`

6. Add found names to the `/etc/hosts` and rerun the scans against them

```shell-session
sudo sh -c 'echo "10.129.1.6 internal.inlanefreight.htb" >> /etc/hosts'
```
```shell-session
sudo sh -c 'echo "10.129.85.254 ftp.internal.inlanefreight.htb" >> /etc/hosts'
```

```shell-session
nmap -T4 ftp.internal.inlanefreight.htb
```