The `kick-off meeting` usually occurs at a scheduled time and in-person after signing all contractual documents. This meeting usually includes client POC(s) (from Internal Audit, Information Security, IT, Governance & Risk, etc., depending on the client), client technical support staff (developers, sysadmins, network engineers, etc.), and the penetration testing team (someone in a management role (such as the Practice Lead), the actual penetration tester(s), and sometimes a Project Manager or even the Sales Account Executive or similar). We will go over the nature of the penetration test and how it will take place. Usually, there is no Denial of Service (DoS) testing. We also explain that if a critical vulnerability is identified, penetration testing activities will be paused, a vulnerability notification report will be generated, and the emergency contacts will be contacted. Typically these are only generated during External Penetration Tests for critical flaws such as unauthenticated remote code execution (RCE), SQL injection, or another flaw that leads to sensitive data disclosure. The purpose of this notification is to allow the client to assess the risk internally and determine if the issue warrants an emergency fix. We would typically only stop an Internal Penetration Test and alert the client if a system becomes unresponsive, we find evidence of illegal activity (such as illegal content on a file share) or the presence of an external threat actor in the network or a prior breach.

We must also inform our customers about potential risks during a penetration test. For example, we should mention that a penetration test can leave many `log entries and alarms` in their security applications. In addition, if brute forcing or any similar attack is used, it is also worth mentioning that we may accidentally `lock some users` found during the penetration test. We also must inform our customers that they must contact us immediately if the penetration test performed `negatively impacts their network`.

Explaining the penetration testing process gives everyone involved a clear idea of our entire process. This demonstrates our professional approach and convinces our questioners that we know what we are doing. Because apart from the technical staff, CTO, and CISO, it will sound like a certain kind of magic that is very difficult for non-technical professionals to understand. So we must be mindful of our audience and target the most technically inexperienced questioner so our approach can be followed by everyone we talk to.

All points related to testing need to be discussed and clarified. It is crucial to respond precisely to the wishes and expectations of the customer/client. Every company structure and network is different and requires an adapted approach. Each client has different goals, and we should adjust our testing to their wishes. We can typically see how experienced our clients are in undergoing penetration tests early in the call, so we may have to shift our focus to explain things in more detail and be prepared to field more questions, or the kickoff call may be very quick and straightforward.