---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - LightweightDirectoryAccessProtocol
  - LDAP
aliases:
  - LDAP
  - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
---
[LDAP](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4511) is an `open-source` cross-platform protocol used for `authentication` and `authorization` with various directory services. This is how many different devices in modern networks can communicate with large directory structure services such as [[What is Active Directory|Active Directory]]

The latest LDAP specification is [Version 3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4511), published as RFC 4511
[Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_Directory_Access_Protocol)

While uncommon, you may come across organization while performing an assessment that do not have AD but are using LDAP, meaning that they most likely use another type of LDAP server such as [OpenLDAP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenLDAP).
## Active Directory Usage

AD stores user account information and security information such as passwords and facilitates sharing this information with other devices on the network. LDAP is the language that applications use to communicate with other servers that provide directory services. In other words, LDAP is how systems in the network environment can "speak" to AD.
#### AD LDAP Authentication

LDAP is set up to authenticate credentials against AD using a "BIND" operation to set the authentication state for an LDAP session. There are two types of LDAP authentication.

1. `Simple Authentication`: This includes anonymous authentication, unauthenticated authentication, and username/password authentication. Simple authentication means that a `username` and `password` create a BIND request to authenticate to the LDAP server.
2. `SASL Authentication`: [The Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Authentication_and_Security_Layer) framework uses other authentication services, such as [[2. Enumeration/TCP/88. Kerberos/1. Guide|Kerberos]], to bind to the LDAP server and then uses this authentication service (Kerberos in this example) to authenticate to LDAP. The LDAP server uses the LDAP protocol to send an LDAP message to the authorization service, which initiates a series of challenge/response messages resulting in either successful or unsuccessful authentication. SASL can provide additional security due to the separation of authentication methods from application protocols.
LDAP authentication messages are sent in cleartext by default so anyone can sniff out LDAP messages on the internal network. It is recommended to use TLS encryption or similar to safeguard this information in transit.
# Guide

1. [389, 636, 3268, 3269 - Pentesting LDAP | HackTricks | HackTricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting/pentesting-ldap)