---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - SSH
  - SecureShell
---

#### Default Configuration

```shell-session
cat /etc/ssh/sshd_config  | grep -v "#" | sed -r '/^\s*$/d'

Include /etc/ssh/sshd_config.d/*.conf
ChallengeResponseAuthentication no
UsePAM yes
X11Forwarding yes
PrintMotd no
AcceptEnv LANG LC_*
Subsystem       sftp    /usr/lib/openssh/sftp-server
```

Most settings in this configuration file are commented out and require manual configuration.

## Dangerous Settings

Despite the SSH protocol being one of the most secure protocols available today, some misconfigurations can still make the SSH server vulnerable to easy-to-execute attacks. Let us take a look at the following settings:

|**Setting**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`PasswordAuthentication yes`|Allows password-based authentication.|
|`PermitEmptyPasswords yes`|Allows the use of empty passwords.|
|`PermitRootLogin yes`|Allows to log in as the root user.|
|`Protocol 1`|Uses an outdated version of encryption.|
|`X11Forwarding yes`|Allows X11 forwarding for GUI applications.|
|`AllowTcpForwarding yes`|Allows forwarding of TCP ports.|
|`PermitTunnel`|Allows tunneling.|
|`DebianBanner yes`|Displays a specific banner when logging in.|

Allowing password authentication allows us to brute-force a known username for possible passwords.

[hardening guides](https://www.ssh-audit.com/hardening_guides.html) can be used to harden our SSH servers.

## Encryption Methods

#### Symmetric Encryption

Symmetric encryption uses the `same key` for encryption and decryption. However, anyone who has access to the key could also access the transmitted data. Therefore, a key exchange procedure is needed for secure symmetric encryption. The [Diffie-Hellman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman_key_exchange) key exchange method is used for this purpose. If a third party obtains the key, it cannot decrypt the messages because the key exchange method is unknown. However, this is used by the server and client to determine the secret key needed to access the data. Many different variants of the symmetrical cipher system can be used, such as AES, Blowfish, 3DES, etc.

#### Asymmetrical Encryption

Asymmetric encryption uses `two SSH keys`: a private key and a public key. The private key must remain secret because only it can decrypt the messages that have been encrypted with the public key. If an attacker obtains the private key, which is often not password protected, he will be able to log in to the system without credentials. Once a connection is established, the server uses the public key for initialization and authentication. If the client can decrypt the message, it has the private key, and the SSH session can begin.

#### Hashing

The hashing method converts the transmitted data into another unique value. SSH uses hashing to confirm the authenticity of messages. This is a mathematical algorithm that only works in one direction.