---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - HTTP
---
1. Use at least **TWO** fuzzing tool to find all of the pages, see [[FeroxBuster]] and [[GoBuster]] 
	* Ensure the hosts have been added to the `/etc/hosts` file and fuzz for sub domains, see [[wFuzz#Fuzzing Sub-Domains|wFuzz]]
	* If nothing is found run [[Nikto]]
2. Find out what the site is running, try [wappalyzer](https://github.com/tunetheweb/wappalyzer), or other methods for example [[1. Recon/Port Scanning/1. Overview]]
	* Check the application for open source config files which may help bypasses, e.g. GitHub
	* Find site version
1. Ensure [[Burp]] is open and watch all requests.
2. Inputting any information, or visiting any interesting pages, check the request using [[Burp]] or just the inspect element. 
	* Importantly look for non-standard features like cookies, then poke them
	* Inputted information may be able to be manipulated e.g. `/jobs/apply/8/ -> /jobs/apply/9/` 
	* URLs may be manipulated to gain more information
	* Potentially input a link which may be automatically visited, see [[Cross-Site Request Forgery (XSRF)|XSRF]]
3. Navigate to all pages found manually and through tools.
4. Attack:
	1. Source code
	2. Frontend Website
	3. Backend Server interactions
	4. Unauthenticated
	5. Authenticated
5. Attempt brute forcing login portals using found credentials, see [[4. Post-Exploitation/Cryptography/Hashes and Encryption/1. Guide#Brute-Forcing Guide|Guide]]


# Table of Concepts

1. If website responses change based on input, see [[Web Application Firewall (WAF)]]
2. File upload, see [[File Upload]]
3. If there is the ability to send commands to be run, see [[Command Injection]]
4. If the site can reflect the user input in any way, see [[Cross Site Scripting (XSS)]]
	1. If the site appears to be doing something automatically it could mean XXS
5. Inputs to password boxes or forms could lead to [[XML#XML External Entity XXE Injection|XXE]] or [[SQL Injection]]
6. Potential URI inputs can lead to [[File include]] or [[Server-Side Template Injection (SSTI)]] 
7. If there is a template error, see [[Server-Side Template Injection (SSTI)]], allows command injection.
8. If PHP Session cookie is used, see [[File include#PHP Session]]
9. If a link is found which should work but seems dead, maybe HTTPS on a HTTP port, see [[HTTP Versions]]
10. If Edge Side Include is found or hinted at, such as **ESIGate**, see [[Edge Side Include (ESI)]]
11. `.shtml` links to a possible general [[Server-Side Includes (SSI)]]
12. If there are multiple styles to the pages, there may be multiple applications running within one source
13. If browser based website viewing is failing, attempt using [[cURL]].
	* Some websites may require credentials but not request them e.g. `Basic realm="Access denied"` means [[Basic HTTP Authentication]] 
14. If payloads are not working, try URL encoding for obscuration.
15. If there may be a database behind an input, see [[SQL Injection]]
16. If scanning tools are finding no pages, attempt varying the user agent, see [[GoBuster#User Agent]]


## Application List

1. [[Apache]]
2. [[WordPress]]
3. [[Drupal]]
4. [[GraphQL]]
5. [[H2 Database]]
6. [[Microsoft IIS]]
7. [[NGINX]]
8. [[Python Hosted]]
9. [[Sharepoint]]
10. [[Windows ASPX]]