---
tags:
  - AWS
  - AmazonWebServices
  - Services
  - Storage
  - StandardInformation
---

[Cloud Computing Concepts Hub](https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/?faq-hub-cards.sort-by=item.additionalFields.sortDate&faq-hub-cards.sort-order=desc&awsf.tech-category=tech-category%23storage)

AWS storage services are grouped into three categories: file storage, block storage, and object storage. In file storage, data is stored as files in a hierarchy. In block storage, data is stored in fixed-size blocks. And in object storage, data is stored as objects in buckets.

## File storage  

File storage is ideal when you require centralized access to files that must be easily shared and managed by multiple host computers. Typically, this storage is mounted onto multiple hosts, and requires file locking and integration with existing file system communication protocols.

## Block storage  

File storage treats files as a singular unit, but block storage splits files into fixed-size chunks of data called blocks that have their own addresses. Each block is an individual piece of data storage. Because each block is addressable, blocks can be retrieved efficiently. Think of block storage as a more direct route to access the data.  
  
When data is requested, the addresses are used by the storage system to organize the blocks in the correct order to form a complete file to present back to the requestor. Besides the address, no additional metadata is associated with each block.

If you want to change one character in a file, you just change the block, or the piece of the file, that contains the character. This ease of access is why block storage solutions are fast and use less bandwidth.

## Object storage

In object storage, files are stored as objects. Objects, much like files, are treated as a single, distinct unit of data when stored. However, unlike file storage, these objects are stored in a bucket using a flat structure, meaning there are no folders, directories, or complex hierarchies. Each object contains a unique identifier. This identifier, along with any additional metadata, is bundled with the data and stored.

Changing just one character in an object is more difficult than with block storage. When you want to change one character in an object, the entire object must be updated.



- **Block storage** in the cloud is analogous to direct-attached storage (DAS) or a storage area network (SAN). 
- **File storage** systems are often supported with a network-attached storage (NAS) server.