This body of knowledge brings together years of AWS Solutions Architects’ experience, across a wide variety of business verticals and use cases.

The framework is divided into six areas of focus, referred to as the pillars of the AWS Well Architected Framework: 
1. Operational excellence: This pillar focuses on improving the people and process efficiency. Examples of this pillar include managing and automating changes, responding to events, and defining standards to successfully manage daily operations. 
2. Security: This pillar focuses on protecting data, information, and systems. Examples of this pillar include providing least privilege access, credential management, protecting systems, and establishing controls to detect security events and respond in an efficient manner. 
3. Reliability: This pillar focuses on designing highly available and resilient systems that can handle component, service, or infrastructure events. This empowers your customer to continue business operations in the face of unexpected events. Examples of this pillar include foundational elements around setup, cross-project requirements, recovery planning, and how we handle change. 
4. Performance efficiency: The performance efficiency pillar focuses on using AWS resources efficiently to meet business objectives, outcomes, and goals. Examples of this © 2023, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. AWS Partner: Accreditation (Technical) PARTNER NETWORK pillar include selecting the right resource types and sizes based on workload requirements, monitoring performance, and ensuring elasticity. 
5. Cost optimization: This pillar focuses on maximizing the value of your current spend. Examples include knowing where your money is spent, selecting the most appropriate AWS resources for applications, and analysing spend over time for long-term success. 
6. Sustainability: This pillar focuses on minimizing the environmental impact of running the cloud workloads. Examples of this pillar include understanding impact, and maximizing utilization to minimize required resources and reduce downstream impacts.

By using the AWS Well-Architected Tool, customers can document the maturity of their workloads and portfolios. They can then use that data to drive investment and communicate application health.