---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - SMTP
---
The `Simple Mail Transfer Protocol` (`SMTP`) is a protocol for sending emails in an IP network. It can be used between an email client and an outgoing mail server or between two SMTP servers. SMTP is often combined with the [[2. Enumeration/TCP/143. Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)/1. Guide|IMAP]] or [[2. Enumeration/TCP/110. Post Office Protocol (POP)/1. Guide|POP3]] protocols, which can fetch emails and send emails. In principle, it is a client-server-based protocol, although SMTP can be used between a client and a server and between two SMTP servers. In this case, a server effectively acts as a client.

By default, SMTP servers accept connection requests on port `25`. However, newer SMTP servers also use other ports such as TCP port `587`. This port is used to receive mail from authenticated users/servers, usually using the STARTTLS command to switch the existing plaintext connection to an encrypted connection. The authentication data is protected and no longer visible in plaintext over the network. At the beginning of the connection, authentication occurs when the client confirms its identity with a user name and password. The emails can then be transmitted. For this purpose, the client sends the server sender and recipient addresses, the email's content, and other information and parameters. After the email has been transmitted, the connection is terminated again. The email server then starts sending the email to another SMTP server.

SMTP works unencrypted without further measures and transmits all commands, data, or authentication information in plain text. To prevent unauthorized reading of data, the SMTP is used in conjunction with SSL/TLS encryption. Under certain circumstances, a server uses a port other than the standard TCP port `25` for the encrypted connection, for example, TCP port `465`.

An essential function of an SMTP server is preventing spam using authentication mechanisms that allow only authorized users to send e-mails. For this purpose, most modern SMTP servers support the protocol extension ESMTP with SMTP-Auth.

After sending his e-mail, the SMTP client, also known as `Mail User Agent` (`MUA`), converts it into a header and a body and uploads both to the SMTP server. This has a so-called `Mail Transfer Agent` (`MTA`), the software basis for sending and receiving e-mails. The MTA checks the e-mail for size and spam and then stores it. To relieve the MTA, it is occasionally preceded by a `Mail Submission Agent` (`MSA`), which checks the validity, i.e., the origin of the e-mail. This `MSA` is also called `Relay` server.

On arrival at the destination SMTP server, the data packets are reassembled to form a complete e-mail. From there, the `Mail delivery agent` (`MDA`) transfers it to the recipient's mailbox.
On arrival at the destination SMTP server, the data packets are reassembled to form a complete e-mail. From there, the `Mail delivery agent` (`MDA`) transfers it to the recipient's mailbox.

| Client (`MUA`) | `➞` | Submission Agent (`MSA`) | `➞` | Open Relay (`MTA`) | `➞` | Mail Delivery Agent (`MDA`) | `➞` | Mailbox (`POP3`/`IMAP`) |
| -------------- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | ------------------ | --- | --------------------------- | --- | ----------------------- |

# Guide

* [25,465,587 - Pentesting SMTP/s | HackTricks | HackTricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting/pentesting-smtp)
* Can get the machines IPv6, see [[Enyx]]
* Run [[SnmpWalk]] and then [[SNMP-Check]]
