---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - SMTP
---
An extension for SMTP has been developed called `Extended SMTP` (`ESMTP`). When people talk about SMTP in general, they usually mean ESMTP. ESMTP uses TLS, which is done after the `EHLO` command by sending `STARTTLS`. This initializes the SSL-protected SMTP connection, and from this moment on, the entire connection is encrypted, and therefore more or less secure. Now [AUTH PLAIN](https://www.samlogic.net/articles/smtp-commands-reference-auth.htm) extension for authentication can also be used safely.

The structure of an email header is defined by [RFC5322](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5322).

To prevent the sent emails from being filtered by spam filters and not reaching the recipient, the sender can use a relay server that the recipient trusts. It is an SMTP server that is known and verified by all others. As a rule, the sender must authenticate himself to the relay server before using it.

## Mail Delivery

An essential function of an SMTP server is preventing spam using authentication mechanisms that allow only authorized users to send e-mails. For this purpose, most modern SMTP servers support the protocol extension ESMTP with SMTP-Auth.

After sending his e-mail, the SMTP client, also known as `Mail User Agent` (`MUA`), converts it into a header and a body and uploads both to the SMTP server. This has a so-called `Mail Transfer Agent` (`MTA`), the software basis for sending and receiving e-mails. The MTA checks the e-mail for size and spam and then stores it. To relieve the MTA, it is occasionally preceded by a `Mail Submission Agent` (`MSA`), which checks the validity, i.e., the origin of the e-mail. This `MSA` is also called `Relay` server.

On arrival at the destination SMTP server, the data packets are reassembled to form a complete e-mail. From there, the `Mail delivery agent` (`MDA`) transfers it to the recipient's mailbox.
On arrival at the destination SMTP server, the data packets are reassembled to form a complete e-mail. From there, the `Mail delivery agent` (`MDA`) transfers it to the recipient's mailbox.

| Client (`MUA`) | `➞` | Submission Agent (`MSA`) | `➞` | Open Relay (`MTA`) | `➞` | Mail Delivery Agent (`MDA`) | `➞` | Mailbox (`POP3`/`IMAP`) |
| -------------- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | ------------------ | --- | --------------------------- | --- | ----------------------- |

## Disadvantage of SMTP

But SMTP has two disadvantages inherent to the network protocol.

1. The first is that sending an email using SMTP does not return a usable delivery confirmation. Although the specifications of the protocol provide for this type of notification, its formatting is not specified by default, so that usually only an English-language error message, including the header of the undelivered message, is returned.
    
2. Users are not authenticated when a connection is established, and the sender of an email is therefore unreliable. As a result, open SMTP relays are often misused to send spam en masse. The originators use arbitrary fake sender addresses for this purpose to not be traced (mail spoofing). Today, many different security techniques are used to prevent the misuse of SMTP servers. For example, suspicious emails are rejected or moved to quarantine (spam folder). For example, responsible for this are the identification protocol [DomainKeys](http://dkim.org/) (`DKIM`), the [Sender Policy Framework](https://dmarcian.com/what-is-spf/) (`SPF`).


## Default Configuration

Each SMTP server can be configured in many ways, as can all other services. However, there are differences because the SMTP server is only responsible for sending and forwarding emails.

```shell-session
cat /etc/postfix/main.cf | grep -v "#" | sed -r "/^\s*$/d"

smtpd_banner = ESMTP Server 
biff = no
append_dot_mydomain = no
readme_directory = no
compatibility_level = 2
smtp_tls_session_cache_database = btree:${data_directory}/smtp_scache
myhostname = mail1.inlanefreight.htb
alias_maps = hash:/etc/aliases
alias_database = hash:/etc/aliases
smtp_generic_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/generic
mydestination = $myhostname, localhost 
masquerade_domains = $myhostname
mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8 10.129.0.0/16
mailbox_size_limit = 0
recipient_delimiter = +
smtp_bind_address = 0.0.0.0
inet_protocols = ipv4
smtpd_helo_restrictions = reject_invalid_hostname
home_mailbox = /home/postfix
```

## Dangerous Settings

Often, administrators have no overview of which IP ranges they have to allow. This results in a misconfiguration of the SMTP server that we will still often find in external and internal penetration tests. Therefore, they allow all IP addresses not to cause errors in the email traffic and thus not to disturb or unintentionally interrupt the communication with potential and current customers.

#### Open Relay Configuration

  SMTP

```shell-session
mynetworks = 0.0.0.0/0
```

With this setting, this SMTP server can send fake emails and thus initialize communication between multiple parties. Another attack possibility would be to spoof the email and read it.