---
tags:
  - Recon
  - Network-Analysis
---

Start with `standard protocols first` and work our way into the `austere and specific` only to the organization.
- Most attacks will come from the internet, so it has to access the internal net somehow. This means there will be traffic generated and logs written about it.
- HTTP/S, FTP, E-mail, and basic TCP and UDP traffic will be the most common things seen coming from the world. Start at these and clear out anything that is not necessary to the investigation.
- After these, check standard protocols that allow for communications between networks, such as SSH, RDP, or Telnet. When looking for these types of anomalies, be mindful of the security policy of the network. Does our organization's security plan and implementations allow for RDP sessions that are initiated outside the enterprise? What about the use of Telnet?

Look for `patterns`. 
- Is a specific host or set of hosts checking in with something on the internet at the same time daily? This is a typical Command and Control profile setup that can easily be spotted by looking for patterns in our traffic data.

Check anything `host to host` within our network.
- In a standard setup, the user's hosts will rarely talk to each other. So be suspicious of any traffic that appears like this. 
- Typically hosts will talk to infrastructure for IP address leases, DNS requests, enterprise services and to find its route out. We will also see hosts talking with local webservers, file shares, and other critical infrastructure for the environment to function like Domain controllers and authentication apps.

Look for `unique` events.
- Things like a host who usually visits a specific site ten times a day changing its pattern and only doing so once is curious. 
- Seeing a different User-Agent string not matching our applications or hosts talking to a server out on the internet is also something to be concerned with. 
- A random port only being bound once or twice on a host is also of note. This could be an opening for things like C2 call-backs, someone opening a port to do something non-standard, or an application showing abnormal behaviour. 
- In large environments, patterns are expected, so anything sticking out warrants a look.

`Don't be afraid to ask for help.` 
- This may seem overstated and obvious, but after a bit of time staring at packet captures, things can blend together, and we may not see the whole picture. 
- Having a second set of eyes on the data can be a huge help in spotting stuff that may get glossed over.