---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - ServerMessageBlock
  - SMB
  - Tooling
  - Responder
aliases:
  - Responder
---

This package contains `Responder/MultiRelay`, an LLMNR, NBT-NS and MDNS poisoner. It will answer to specific NBT-NS (NetBIOS Name Service) queries based on their name suffix. By default, the tool will only answer to File Server Service request, which is for SMB.

 [Responder](https://github.com/lgandx/Responder) is an LLMNR, NBT-NS, and MDNS poisoner tool with different capabilities, one of them is the possibility to set up fake services, including SMB, to steal NetNTLM v1/v2 hashes. In its default configuration, it will find LLMNR and NBT-NS traffic. Then, it will respond on behalf of the servers the victim is looking for and capture their NetNTLM hashes.
 
[responder | Kali Linux Tools](https://www.kali.org/tools/responder/)

> [!NOTE]
> Since the Microsoft [**MS08-068**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/security-updates/securitybulletins/2008/ms08-068) vulnerability patch, you cannot relay NTLMv1/v2 authentication to the same machine from which it came. 
> You also cannot relay saved hashes that you’ve collected with Responder.

## Usage 

```shell-session
sudo responder -I <INTERFACE>
```

All saved Hashes are located in Responder's logs directory (`/usr/share/responder/logs/`).

> [!NOTE]
> If you notice multiples hashes for one account this is because NTLMv2 utilizes both a client-side and server-side challenge that is randomized for each interaction. This makes it so the resulting hashes that are sent are salted with a randomized string of numbers. This is why the hashes don't match but still represent the same password.

##### Relay Attacks 

See [[Impacket-ntlmrelayx]] or [[MultiRelay]]