
The IPMI protocol was first published by Intel in 1998 and is now supported by over 200 system vendors, including Cisco, Dell, HP, Supermicro, Intel, and more. Systems using IPMI version 2.0 can be administered via serial over LAN, giving sysadmins the ability to view serial console output in band. To function, IPMI requires the following components:

- Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) - A micro-controller and essential component of an IPMI
- Intelligent Chassis Management Bus (ICMB) - An interface that permits communication from one chassis to another
- Intelligent Platform Management Bus (IPMB) - extends the BMC
- IPMI Memory - stores things such as the system event log, repository store data, and more
- Communications Interfaces - local system interfaces, serial and LAN interfaces, ICMB and PCI Management Bus

Systems that use the IPMI protocol are called Baseboard Management Controllers (BMCs). BMCs are typically implemented as embedded ARM systems running Linux, and connected directly to the host's motherboard. BMCs are built into many motherboards but can also be added to a system as a PCI card. Most servers either come with a BMC or support adding a BMC. The most common BMCs we often see during internal penetration tests are HP iLO, Dell DRAC, and Supermicro IPMI. If we can access a BMC during an assessment, we would gain full access to the host motherboard and be able to monitor, reboot, power off, or even reinstall the host operating system. Gaining access to a BMC is nearly equivalent to physical access to a system. Many BMCs (including HP iLO, Dell DRAC, and Supermicro IPMI) expose a web-based management console, some sort of command-line remote access protocol such as Telnet or SSH, and the port 623 UDP, which, again, is for the IPMI network protocol.

## Dangerous Settings Vulnerabilities