---
tags:
  - OperatingSystems
  - Windows
  - PowerShell
  - Modules
  - StandardInformation
  - Tooling
---
### Scripts vs. Modules

The easiest way to think of it is that a script is an executable text file containing PowerShell cmdlets and functions, while a module can be just a simple script, or a collection of multiple script files, manifests, and functions bundled together. The other main difference is in their use. You would typically call a script by executing it directly, while you can import a module and all of the associated scripts and functions to call at your whim.

| **Extension**                     | **Description**                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [[PS1 (PowerShell Script)]]       | The `*.ps1` file extension represents executable PowerShell scripts.                                                            |
| [[PSM1 (PowerShell Module File)]] | The `*.psm1` file extension represents a PowerShell module file. It defines what the module is and what is contained within it. |
| [[PSD1 (PowerShell Data File)]]   | The `*.psd1` is a PowerShell data file detailing the contents of a PowerShell module in a table of key/value pairs.             |
[Writing a Windows PowerShell Module - PowerShell | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/developer/module/writing-a-windows-powershell-module?view=powershell-7.2)

## Module Components

A module is made up of `four` essential components:
1. A `directory` containing all the required files and content, saved somewhere within `$env:PSModulePath`.
- This is done so that when you attempt to import it into your PowerShell session or Profile, it can be automatically found instead of having to specify where it is.
2. A `manifest` file listing all files and pertinent information about the module and its function.
- This could include associated scripts, dependencies, the author, example usage, etc.
3. Some code file - usually either a PowerShell script (`.ps1`) or a (`.psm1`) module file that contains our script functions and other information.
4. Other resources the module needs, such as help files, scripts, and other supporting documents.

> [!NOTE]
> This setup is standard practice but not strictly necessary. 
> We could have our module be just a `*.psm1` file that contains our scripts and context, skipping the manifest and other helper files. 
> PowerShell would be able to interpret and understand what to do in either instance. For the sake of propriety, we will work on building out a standard PowerShell module, including the manifest file and some built-in help functionality.

