---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - MySQL
  - SQL
aliases:
  - SQL
  - MySQL
---
`MySQL` is an open-source SQL relational database management system developed and supported by Oracle. A database is simply a structured collection of data organized for easy use and retrieval. The database system can quickly process large amounts of data with high performance. Within the database, data storage is done in a manner to take up as little space as possible. The database is controlled using the [SQL database language](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_intro.asp). MySQL works according to the `client-server principle` and consists of a MySQL server and one or more MySQL clients. The MySQL server is the actual database management system. It takes care of data storage and distribution. The data is stored in tables with different columns, rows, and data types. These databases are often stored in a single file with the file extension `.sql`, for example, like `wordpress.sql`.

The most important databases for the MySQL server are the `system schema` (`sys`) and `information schema` (`information_schema`). The system schema contains tables, information, and metadata necessary for management. More about this database can be found in the [reference manual](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/system-schema.html#:~:text=The%20mysql%20schema%20is%20the,used%20for%20other%20operational%20purposes) of MySQL.
## Guide

1. Generic tooling and scanning, see [[1. Metasploit Usage#SQL]] or [3306 - Pentesting MySQL | HackTricks | HackTricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/network-services-pentesting/pentesting-mysql)
2. NoSQL, see [NoSQL injection | HackTricks | HackTricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/nosql-injection)
3. Attempt brute forcing connection, see [[Hydra#SQL]]
4. For Windows authentication, see [[2. Enumeration/TCP/1433. MSSQL/1. Guide#Windows MSSQL Authentication|MSSQL]]

## Tooling

1. From Linux, see [[SqSh]] to connect to a remote database. GUI, see [[dbeaver]]
2. From Windows, see [[SqlCmd]] to connect to a remote database. GUI, see [[SQLite Browser]]
3. Impacket, see [[Impacket mssqlclient]]


## Enumeration

```shell-session
sudo nmap 10.129.14.128 -sV -sC -p3306 --script mysql*
```

## Commands 

##### Connect to MySQL 

```bash
mysql -u anonymous -p -h 10.10.10.125 -P 1433
```


##### Useful Commands

Connect to local database:
- `mysql -p`

Commands:
- `show databases;`
- `select version();`
- `use <DATABASE>;`
- `show tables;`
- `select <FIELD> from <DATABASE>;`
- `show columns from <TABLE>;`

### Privilege Enumeration

See [[2. Enumeration/TCP/3306. MySQL (SQL)/Concepts/Write Local File|Write Local File]]
```shell-session
show variables like "secure_file_priv";
```

# Privilege Escalation

See [[SQL]]

