---
tags:
  - Enumeration
  - TCP
  - MySQL
  - SQL
---
General security issues from MySQL: [8.1 General Security Issues](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/general-security-issues.html)
#### MySQL Clients

The MySQL clients can retrieve and edit the data using structured queries to the database engine. Inserting, deleting, modifying, and retrieving data, is done using the SQL database language. Therefore, MySQL is suitable for managing many different databases to which clients can send multiple queries simultaneously. Depending on the use of the database, access is possible via an internal network or the public Internet.

#### MySQL Databases

MySQL is ideally suited for applications such as `dynamic websites`, where efficient syntax and high response speed are essential. It is often combined with a Linux OS, PHP, and an Apache web server and is also known in this combination as [LAMP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAMP_(software_bundle)) (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP), or when using Nginx, as [LEMP](https://lemp.io/).

In a web hosting with MySQL database, this serves as a central instance in which content required by PHP scripts is stored. Among these are:

| Headers                 | Texts            | Meta tags         | Forms      |
| ----------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | ---------- |
| Customers               | Usernames        | Administrators    | Moderators |
| Email addresses         | User information | Permissions       | Passwords  |
| External/Internal links | Links to Files   | Specific contents | Values     |

Sensitive data such as passwords can be stored in their plain-text form by MySQL; however, they are generally encrypted beforehand by the PHP scripts using secure methods such as [[4. Post-Exploitation/Cryptography/Hashes and Encryption/1. Guide|Hashing]]

#### MySQL Commands

A MySQL database translates the commands internally into executable code and performs the requested actions.

The web application sends the generated information back to the client if the data is processed correctly. This information can be the data extracts from a table or records needed for further processing with logins, search functions, etc. SQL commands can display, modify, add or delete rows in tables. In addition, SQL can also change the structure of tables, create or delete relationships and indexes, and manage users.

## Default Configuration

The management of SQL databases and their configurations is a vast topic. It is so large that entire professions, such as `database administrator`, deal with almost nothing but databases. These structures become very large quickly, and their planning can become complicated. Among other things, DB management is a core competency for `software developers` but also `information security analysts`.

```shell-session
cat /etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf | grep -v "#" | sed -r '/^\s*$/d'

[client]
port		= 3306
socket		= /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock

[mysqld_safe]
pid-file	= /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.pid
socket		= /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock
nice		= 0

[mysqld]
skip-host-cache
skip-name-resolve
user		= mysql
pid-file	= /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.pid
socket		= /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock
port		= 3306
basedir		= /usr
datadir		= /var/lib/mysql
tmpdir		= /tmp
lc-messages-dir	= /usr/share/mysql
explicit_defaults_for_timestamp

symbolic-links=0

!includedir /etc/mysql/conf.d/
```

## Dangerous Settings

Many things can be misconfigured with MySQL. We can look in more detail at the [MySQL reference](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html) to determine which options can be made in the server configuration. The main options that are security-relevant are:

|**Settings**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`user`|Sets which user the MySQL service will run as.|
|`password`|Sets the password for the MySQL user.|
|`admin_address`|The IP address on which to listen for TCP/IP connections on the administrative network interface.|
|`debug`|This variable indicates the current debugging settings|
|`sql_warnings`|This variable controls whether single-row INSERT statements produce an information string if warnings occur.|
|`secure_file_priv`|This variable is used to limit the effect of data import and export operations.|